README.md, before:

![](https://badgen.net/badge/Editor.js/v2.0/blue)
# Attaches Tool
Attaches Tool for the [Editor.js](https://codex.so/editor).

This tool allows you to attach files to your articles.

![Example](https://capella.pics/7b63cffe-9214-40f4-9009-0637970a4630.jpg)

## Get the package
You can get the package using any of these ways.

### Install via npm

```shell
npm i --save-dev @editorjs/attaches
```

Include module at your application

```javascript
const AttachesTool = require('@editorjs/attaches');
```


### Download to your project's source dir

1. Upload folder `dist` from repository
2. Add `dist/bundle.js` file to your page.

### Load from CDN

You can load specific version of package from [jsDelivr CDN](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/@editorjs/attaches).

`https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@editorjs/attaches@latest`

Then require this script on page with Editor.js through the `<script src=""></script>` tag.

## Usage

Add a new Tool to the `tools` property of the Editor.js initial config.

```javascript
var editor = EditorJS({
  ...

  tools: {
    ...
    attaches: {
      class: AttachesTool,
      config: {
        endpoint: 'http://localhost:8008/uploadFile'
      }
    }
  }

  ...
});
```

## Config Params

Attaches Tool supports these configuration parameters:

| Field | Type     | Description        |
| ----- | -------- | ------------------ |
| endpoint | `string` | **Required:** endpoint for file uploading. |
| field | `string` | (default: `file`) Name of uploaded file field in POST request |
| types | `string` | (default: `*`) Mime-types of files that can be [accepted with file selection](https://github.com/codex-team/ajax#accept-string).|
| buttonText | `string` | (default: `Select file`) Placeholder for file upload button |
| errorMessage | `string` | (default: `File upload failed`) Message to show if file upload failed |


## Output data

This Tool returns `data` with following format

| Field          | Type      | Description                     |
| -------------- | --------- | ------------------------------- |
| file           | `object`  | Uploaded file data. Data received from backend uploader. See description below. |
| title | `string` | File's title. Initially set as uploaded file name. Can be modified by user.          |

### file object <a name="file-object"></a>
Object `file` consists of the following fields. All of them are optional, `size` and `extension` are supported by design.

| Field          | Type      | Description                       |
| -------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------|
| url            |`string`   | Full public path of uploaded file |
| size           |`number`   | File's size (expected in bytes, according to Tool's design)                      |
| name           |`string`   | File's name                       |
| extension      |`string`   | File's extension                  |

```json
{
    "type" : "attaches",
    "data" : {
        "file": {
            "url" : "https://www.tesla.com/tesla_theme/assets/img/_vehicle_redesign/roadster_and_semi/roadster/hero.jpg",
            "size": 91,
            "name": "hero.jpg",
            "extension": "jpg"
        },
        "title": "Hero"
    }
}
```

## Backend response format

Response of your uploader **should** cover following format:

```json5
{
    "success" : 1,
    "file": {
        // any data you want 
        // for example: url, name, size
    }
}
```

**success** - uploading status. 1 for successful, 0 for failed

**file** - uploaded file data.
Can contain data you want to store. Fields `url`, `name`, `size`, and `extension` if present will be written to [file object](#file-object). Fields size and extension are supported by design.

Commit message:

Add some features
- md-File support
- readOnly mode support
- uuid fileName support
- update Readme
- use path.join in wabpack.js
- add npm-packages so the build would work

README.md, after:

![](https://badgen.net/badge/Editor.js/v2.0/blue)
# Attaches Tool
Attaches Tool for the [Editor.js](https://codex.so/editor).

This tool allows you to attach files to your articles.

![Example](https://capella.pics/7b63cffe-9214-40f4-9009-0637970a4630.jpg)

## Get the package
You can get the package using any of these ways.

### Install via npm

```shell
npm i --save-dev @editorjs/attaches
```

Include module at your application

```javascript
const AttachesTool = require('@editorjs/attaches');
```


### Download to your project's source dir

1. Upload folder `dist` from repository
2. Add `dist/bundle.js` file to your page.

### Load from CDN

You can load specific version of package from [jsDelivr CDN](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/@editorjs/attaches).

`https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@editorjs/attaches@latest`

Then require this script on page with Editor.js through the `<script src=""></script>` tag.

## Usage

Add a new Tool to the `tools` property of the Editor.js initial config.

```javascript
var editor = EditorJS({
  ...

  tools: {
    ...
    attaches: {
      class: AttachesTool,
      config: {
        endpoint: 'http://localhost:8008/uploadFile'
      }
    }
  }

  ...
});
```

## Config Params

Attaches Tool supports these configuration parameters:

| Field | Type     | Description        |
| ----- | -------- | ------------------ |
| endpoint | `string` | **Required:** endpoint for file uploading. |
| field | `string` | (default: `file`) Name of uploaded file field in POST request |
| types | `string` | (default: `*`) Mime-types of files that can be [accepted with file selection](https://github.com/codex-team/ajax#accept-string).|
| buttonText | `string` | (default: `Select file`) Placeholder for file upload button |
| errorMessage | `string` | (default: `File upload failed`) Message to show if file upload failed |
| uuidSupport | `boolean` | (default: `false` ) Defines if the returned url containes a uuid as fileName, if so than append the actual fileName to the url. The Backend needs to accept the second url parameter and use that in the reponse as the fileName, otherwise the uuid is the fileName which gets displayed to the user.  |

## Output data

This Tool returns `data` with following format

| Field          | Type      | Description                     |
| -------------- | --------- | ------------------------------- |
| file           | `object`  | Uploaded file data. Data received from backend uploader. See description below. |
| title | `string` | File's title. Initially set as uploaded file name. Can be modified by user.          |

### file object <a name="file-object"></a>
Object `file` consists of the following fields. All of them are optional, `size` and `extension` are supported by design.

| Field          | Type      | Description                       |
| -------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------|
| url            |`string`   | Full public path of uploaded file |
| size           |`number`   | File's size (expected in bytes, according to Tool's design)                      |
| name           |`string`   | File's name                       |
| extension      |`string`   | File's extension                  |

```json
{
    "type" : "attaches",
    "data" : {
        "file": {
            "url" : "https://www.tesla.com/tesla_theme/assets/img/_vehicle_redesign/roadster_and_semi/roadster/hero.jpg",
            "size": 91,
            "name": "hero.jpg",
            "extension": "jpg"
        },
        "title": "Hero"
    }
}
```

## Backend response format

Response of your uploader **should** cover following format:

```json5
{
    "success" : 1,
    "file": {
        // any data you want 
        // for example: url, name, size
    }
}
```

**success** - uploading status. 1 for successful, 0 for failed

**file** - uploaded file data.
Can contain data you want to store. Fields `url`, `name`, `size`, and `extension` if present will be written to [file object](#file-object). Fields size and extension are supported by design.
